pmid	text
31016597	"Sarcomas represent an extensive group of divergent malignant diseases, with the only common characteristic of being derived from mesenchymal cells. As such, sarcomas are by definition very heterogeneous, and this heterogeneity does not manifest only upon intertumoral comparison on a bulk tumor level but can be extended to intratumoral level. Whereas part of this intratumoral heterogeneity could be understood in terms of clonal genetic evolution, an essential part includes a hierarchical relationship between sarcoma cells, governed by both genetic and epigenetic influences, signals that sarcoma cells are exposed to, and intrinsic developmental programs derived from sarcoma cells of origin. The notion of this functional hierarchy operating within each tumor implies the existence of sarcoma stem cells, which may originate from mesenchymal stem cells, and indeed, mesenchymal stem cells have been used to establish several crucial experimental sarcoma models and to trace down their respective stem cell populations. Mesenchymal stem cells themselves are heterogeneous, and, moreover, there are alternative possibilities for sarcoma cells of origin, like neural crest-derived stem cells, or mesenchymal committed precursor cells, or - in rhabdomyosarcoma - muscle satellite cells. These various origins result in substantial heterogeneity in possible sarcoma initiation. Genetic and epigenetic changes associated with sarcomagenesis profoundly impact the biology of sarcoma stem cells. For pediatric sarcomas featuring discrete reciprocal translocations and largely stable karyotypes, the translocation-activated oncogenes could be crucial factors that confer stemness, principally by modifying transcriptome and interfering with normal epigenetic regulation; the most extensively studied examples of this process are myxoid/round cell liposarcoma, Ewing sarcoma, and synovial sarcoma. For adult sarcomas, which have typically complex and unstable karyotypes, stemness might be defined more operationally, as a reflection of actual assembly of genetically and epigenetically conditioned stemness factors, with dedifferentiated liposarcoma providing a most thoroughly studied example. Alternatively, stemness can be imposed by tumor microenvironment, as extensively documented in osteosarcoma. In spite of this heterogeneity in both sarcoma initiation and underlying stemness biology, some of the molecular mechanisms of stemness might be remarkably similar in diverse sarcoma types, like abrogation of classical tumor suppressors pRb and p53, activation of Sox-2, or inhibition of canonical Wnt/_-catenin signaling. Moreover, even some stem cell markers initially characterized for their stem cell enrichment capacity in various carcinomas or leukemias seem to function quite similarly in various sarcomas. Understanding the biology of sarcoma stem cells could significantly improve sarcoma patient clinical care, leading to both better patient stratification and, hopefully, development of more effective therapeutic options."
29220292	"Several recent advances have been made in the diagnosis and therapy of malignant small round cell tumors that affect children, particularly in rhabdomyosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma, and other round cell sarcomas. These advances have provided new insights into the pathologic, histologic, and genomic characterization of specific tumor subtypes, which has led to the identification of novel therapeutic targets and improved stratification of risk. This has, in turn, led to improved efficacy in clinical trials of new drug combinations, thereby increasing the survival of patients with newly diagnosed and refractory or recurrent round cell sarcomas. Here, we review the progress that has been made using genomics to identify novel pathologic genomic rearrangements, as well as therapeutic targets. We also describe how clinical and molecular factors have helped refine risk stratification and therapies that have led to improved clinical outcomes in patients with round cell sarcomas."
28509807	"Purpose of review: Retroperitoneal sarcomas are rare tumors and with complex treatment. In this manuscript we give an overview of current standards in treatment of this disease and discuss new developments. Recent findings: Surgery with complete resection of the primary tumor is still the only curative modality. The role of preoperative radiotherapy is not clear and is currently being investigated in a clinical trial. Neo-adjuvant chemotherapy is not the standard of care but can be considered occasionally when complete resection is uncertain. Local and distant recurrent disease carries a dismal prognosis, although long-term survival can be achieved. Liposarcomas tend to recur locally, whereas distant recurrences are more often seen in leiomyosarcoma and other subtypes. Outcome improves when patients are treated in high volume sarcoma centers. In the metastatic setting, newer systemic agents have recently been approved. Summary: Treatment of retroperitoneal sarcomas is complex and all patients should be treated in multidisciplinary sarcoma centers. Increasing international collaboration of expert centers in sharing expertise and performing clinical trials might lead to better treatment and improved survival."
29220288	"Sarcomas include diverse mesenchymal neoplasms with widely varied prognosis, clinical behavior, and treatment. Owing to their rarity and histologic overlap, accurate diagnosis of sarcomas can be challenging. Our approach has evolved dramatically in the past few decades, where novel insights into the molecular pathogenetic basis for sarcomas has dramatically (re)shaped contemporary diagnosis, building on a largely morphology- and clinical presentation-based strategy. Examples include the introduction of novel immunohistochemical markers that serve as surrogates for molecular genetic alterations and identification of characteristic molecular alterations. Accordingly, cytogenetic and molecular genetic analyses, such as conventional karyotyping, fluorescence in situ hybridization, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and targeted sequencing, have increasingly been incorporated into the routine diagnostic work-up of these neoplasms. For those sarcomas with complex cytogenetic changes that lack specific alterations, additional testing is often directed toward identifying lines of differentiation and excluding pathognomonic (cyto-)genetic alterations. Although some gene rearrangements are diagnostic of particular sarcoma types, certain fusion partners, most notably EWSR1, are not tumor specific (and may, in fact, also be found in benign tumors). Correlation with clinical, radiologic, morphologic, and immunohistochemical findings is particularly important in tumors with such rearrangements to establish the correct diagnosis, acknowledging the inherent limitations of diagnostic tests. The recognition of sarcomas occurring in cancer predisposition syndromes is critical, with implications not only for the index patient but also potentially for family members, including the need for genetic counseling and sometimes particular types of surveillance. Together, contemporary sarcoma evaluation involves combining the initial morphologic evaluation with diagnostically relevant cytogenetic, molecular, and immunohistochemical testing methods."
29768052	"Management of soft tissue sarcoma is increasingly subtype-dependent. Surgery is recommended for uterine leiomyosarcoma, with trabectedin being the preferred option for advanced disease when the treatment goal is long-term tumor stabilization. Liposarcoma subgroups are characterized by distinctive morphologies and genetics, different patterns of disease progression and clinical behavior, and variable responses to treatment. Genetic analysis of sarcomas has provided insights into pathogenesis with potential for developing new molecular targets. At the cytogenetic level, soft tissue sarcomas are categorized into specific, balanced translocations and those due to massive chromosomal rearrangements. For subtypes such as undifferentiated sarcomas, angiosarcomas, alveolar soft part sarcomas and clear cell sarcomas, evidence is especially limited, although it is known that these tumors display markedly different sensitivities to chemotherapeutic and targeted agents."
31236647	"Sarcoma is rare and heterogenous with various subtypes having a different prognostic. Desmoid is a tumour with a local aggressiveness; GIST with KIT mutation responds massively to target treatment as IMATINIB, whereas soft tissue sarcoma and leiomyosarcoma are very aggressive with poor response to systemic therapies. Interventional radiology plays an important role in the diagnosis of sarcomas with image-guided percutaneous core needle biopsy being the most commonly used biopsy technique in the diagnosis of sarcomas. Biopsy access routes discussed with the surgeon, and skin access is tattooed. Surgery is a mainstay of sarcoma treatment; the resection can be large. Indeed, resection objective is R0 because quality of surgical margins impacts local control and survival. Radiotherapy is possible in neoadjuvant or in adjuvant treatment to improve local control rate. Recently radiotherapy enhancer injected percutaneously in soft tissue sarcoma has proven benefit in increasing the rate of R0 complete surgical resection. Several studies showed better local control rate linked with post-operative radiotherapy. In patients affected by oligometastatic disease, complete surgical resection of all metastatic sites is in fact considered the primary treatment because complete remission is critical for cure. The decision making to use local therapies is complex, depends upon diverse presentations and histologies, and should always be taken in a multidisciplinary discussion. Today, percutaneous image-guided treatments with ablation technologies (radiofrequency ablation, cryotherapy, microwaves ablation) provide high rate of durable local control for small-sized malignant deposit in many organs including lung, liver and bones. Sarcoma must be managed by multimodality treatment in expert reference centres. Such management has a considerable impact on the prognosis."
27306060	"Ewing-like sarcomas (ELS) are a heterogenous group of tumors that frequently affect pediatric and young adult patients. Accurate classification and distinction from the Ewing sarcoma family of tumor (ESFT) is decisive in patient management. ELS share a significant morphologic, immunohistochemical and clinical overlap with ESFT, thus the differential diagnosis is challenging, especially with atypical ESFT and tumors with unusual immunoprofiles or uncommon clinicoradiological findings. A subset of ELS harboring the CIC-DUX4 or BCOR-CCNB3 fusions has been described recently. The spectrum of ELS is now expanding, and additional gene fusion partners besides DUX4 or CCNB3 have been detected, and the terms CIC or BCOR-rearranged sarcomas have recently been proposed. We review the clinical, histological, phenotypic and molecular findings of ESFT and these new emerging ELS."
27733179	"Soft tissue sarcomas are uncommon tumours of mesenchymal origin, most commonly arising in the extremities. Treatment includes surgical resection in combination with radiotherapy. Resection margins are of paramount importance in surgical treatment of soft tissue sarcomas but unambiguous guidelines for ideal margins of resection are still missing as is an uniform guideline on the use of radiotherapy.The present paper reviews the literature on soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities regarding the required resection margins, the impact of new radiotherapy techniques and the timing of radiotherapy, more particularly if it should be administered before or after surgical resection.This review was started by searching guidelines in different databases (National Guideline Clearinghouse, EBMPracticeNet, TRIP database, NCCN guidelines,É). After refinement of the query, more specific articles were found using MEDLINE, PubMed, Web of Science and Google Scholar. Used keywords include ""soft tissue sarcoma""; ""extremities OR limbs""; ""radiotherapy"", ""surgery"", ""margins"", ""local recurrence"" and ""overall survival"". Finally, the articles were selected based on the accessibility of the full text, use of the English language and relevance based on title and abstract.Literature demonstrates positive resection margins to be an important adverse prognostic factor for local recurrence of soft tissue sarcomas of the extremities. Still, no consensus is reached on the definition of what a good margin might be. The evolution of new radiation techniques, especially Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy, resulted in a s healthy surrounding tissues. However, the timing of radiotherapy treatment remains controversial as both preoperative and postoperative radiotherapy are characterised by several advantages and disadvantages."
27480354	"Introduction: Retroperitoneal soft tissue sarcomas (RPS) are rare tumors. Surgery is the mainstay of curative therapy, but local recurrence is common. No recommendations concerning the best management of recurring disease have been developed so far. Although every effort should be made to optimize the initial approach, recommendations to treat recurring RPS will be helpful to maximize disease control at recurrence. Methods: An RPS transatlantic working group was established in 2013. The goals of the group were to share institutional experiences, build large multi-institutional case series, and develop consensus documents on the approach to this difficult disease. The outcome of this document applies to recurrent RPS that is nonvisceral in origin. Included are sarcomas of major veins, undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma of psoas, ureteric leiomyosarcoma (LMS). Excluded are desmoids-type fibromatosis, angiomyolipoma, gastrointestinal stromal tumors, sarcomas arising from the gut or its mesentery, uterine LMS, prostatic sarcoma, paratesticular/spermatic cord sarcoma, Ewing sarcoma, alveolar/embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, sarcoma arising from teratoma, carcinosarcoma, sarcomatoid carcinoma, clear cell sarcoma, radiation-induced sarcoma, paraganglioma, and malignant pheochromocytoma. Results: Recurrent RPS management was evaluated from diagnosis to follow-up. It is a rare and complex malignancy that is best managed by an experienced multidisciplinary team in a specialized referral center. The best chance of cure is at the time of primary presentation, but some patients may experience prolonged disease control also at recurrence, when the approach is optimized and follows the recommendations contained herein. Conclusions: International collaboration is critical for adding to the present knowledge. A transatlantic prospective registry has been established."
29194633	There is paucity of randomized controlled data on the role of systemic therapy in retroperitoneal sarcomas. The type of systemic therapy used is guided by the histological subtype. The majority of retroperitoneal sarcomas comprising liposarcomas and leiomyosarcomas are by and large chemotherapy insensitive. There is an urgent need for more efficacious systemic therapies in the management of early and advanced stage retroperitoneal sarcomas.