UI  -  28667551
TI  -  The Role of the Immune System Beyond the Fight Against Infection.
AB  -  b"The immune system was identified as a protective factor during infectious diseases over a century ago. Current definitions and textbook information are still largely influenced by these early observations, and the immune system is commonly presented as a defence machinery. However, host defence is only one manifestation of the immune system's overall function in the maintenance of tissue homeostasis and system integrity. In fact, the immune system is integral part of fundamental physiological processes such as development, reproduction and wound healing, and a close crosstalk between the immune system and other body systems such as metabolism, the central nervous system and the cardiovascular system is evident. Research and medical professionals in an expanding range of areas start to recognise the implications of the immune system in their respective fields.This chapter provides a brief historical perspective on how our understanding of the immune system has evolved from a defence system to an overarching surveillance machinery to maintain tissue integrity. Current perspectives on the non-defence functions of classical immune cells and factors will also be discussed."


UI  -  31027668
TI  -  Emerging Infectious Diseases.
AB  -  b'Emerging infectious diseases (EID) and reemerging infectious diseases are increasing globally. Zoonotic diseases are transmitted from animals to humans through direct contact or through food, water, and the environment. Vector-borne diseases are major sources of mortality and morbidity globally. Three mosquito-borne viruses are yellow fever, chikungunya virus, and dengue virus. Recent EIDs include Candida auris, Elizabethkingia anopheles, The Lone Star tick, and avian influenza H7N2. In addition, mcr-1 may contribute to the dissemination of drug resistance to gram-negative bacteria. Nurses play a major role in the identification and prevention of EID within health care settings.'


UI  -  28051192
TI  -  Global Warming and Its Health Impact.
AB  -  b"Since the mid-19th century, human activities have increased greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide in the Earth's atmosphere that resulted in increased average temperature. The effects of rising temperature include soil degradation, loss of productivity of agricultural land, desertification, loss of biodiversity, degradation of ecosystems, reduced fresh-water resources, acidification of the oceans, and the disruption and depletion of stratospheric ozone. All these have an impact on human health, causing non-communicable diseases such as injuries during natural disasters, malnutrition during famine, and increased mortality during heat waves due to complications in chronically ill patients. Direct exposure to natural disasters has also an impact on mental health and, although too complex to be quantified, a link has even been established between climate and civil violence. Over time, climate change can reduce agricultural resources through reduced availability of water, alterations and shrinking arable land, increased pollution, accumulation of toxic substances in the food chain, and creation of habitats suitable to the transmission of human and animal pathogens. People living in low-income countries are particularly vulnerable. Climate change scenarios include a change in distribution of infectious diseases with warming and changes in outbreaks associated with weather extreme events. After floods, increased cases of leptospirosis, campylobacter infections and cryptosporidiosis are reported. Global warming affects water heating, rising the transmission of water-borne pathogens. Pathogens transmitted by vectors are particularly sensitive to climate change because they spend a good part of their life cycle in a cold-blooded host invertebrate whose temperature is similar to the environment. A warmer climate presents more favorable conditions for the survival and the completion of the life cycle of the vector, going as far as to speed it up as in the case of mosquitoes. Diseases transmitted by mosquitoes include some of the most widespread worldwide illnesses such as malaria and viral diseases. Tick-borne diseases have increased in the past years in cold regions, because rising temperatures accelerate the cycle of development, the production of eggs, and the density and distribution of the tick population. The areas of presence of ticks and diseases that they can transmit have increased, both in terms of geographical extension than in altitude. In the next years the engagement of the health sector would be working to develop prevention and adaptation programs in order to reduce the costs and burden of climate change."


UI  -  27726779
TI  -  Overview of Infections in the Immunocompromised Host.
AB  -  b'Understanding the components of the immune system that contribute to host defense against infection is key to recognizing infections that are more likely to occur in an immunocompromised patient. In this review, we discuss the integrated system of physical barriers and of innate and adaptive immunity that contributes to host defense. Specific defects in the components of this system that predispose to particular infections are presented. This is followed by a review of primary immunodeficiency diseases and secondary immunodeficiencies, the latter of which develop because of a specific illness or condition or are treatment-related. The effects of treatment for neoplasia, autoimmune diseases, solid organ and stem cell transplants on host defenses are reviewed and associated with susceptibility to particular infections. In conclusion, an approach to laboratory screening for a suspected immunodeficiency is presented. Knowledge of which host defects predispose to specific infections allows clinicians to prevent, diagnose, and manage infections in their immunocompromised patients most effectively.'


UI  -  29165905
TI  -  Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP): a versatile technique for detection of micro-organisms.
AB  -  b'Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) amplifies DNA with high specificity, efficiency and rapidity under isothermal conditions by using a DNA polymerase with high displacement strand activity and a set of specifically designed primers to amplify targeted DNA strands. Following its first discovery by Notomi et\\N{NO-BREAK SPACE}al. ( Nucleic Acids Res 28: E63), LAMP was further developed over the years which involved the combination of this technique with other molecular approaches, such as reverse transcription and multiplex amplification for the detection of infectious diseases caused by micro-organisms in humans, livestock and plants. In this review, available types of LAMP techniques will be discussed together with their applications in detection of various micro-organisms. Up to date, there are varieties of LAMP detection methods available including colorimetric and fluorescent detection, real-time monitoring using turbidity metre and detection using lateral flow device which will also be highlighted in this review. Apart from that, commercialization of LAMP technique had also been reported such as lyophilized form of LAMP reagents kit and LAMP primer sets for detection of pathogenic micro-organisms. On top of that, advantages and limitations of this molecular detection method are also described together with its future potential as a diagnostic method for infectious disease.'


UI  -  27598145
TI  -  Infectious Diseases: Pathophysiology, Diagnostics and Prevention.
AB  -  b'Infectious diseases occur very frequently in children and adults. Novel diagnostic methods have permitted us to expand our knowledge on their epidemiology and pathophysiology [1].[...]. '


UI  -  29040428
TI  -  Understanding the Promises and Hurdles of Metagenomic Next-Generation Sequencing as a Diagnostic Tool for Infectious Diseases.
AB  -  b'Agnostic metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) has emerged as a promising single, universal pathogen detection method for infectious disease diagnostics. This methodology allows for identification and genomic characterization of bacteria, fungi, parasites, and viruses without the need for a priori knowledge of a specific pathogen directly from clinical specimens. Although there are increasing reports of mNGS successes, several hurdles need to be addressed, such as differentiation of colonization from infection, extraneous sources of nucleic acid, method standardization, and data storage, protection, analysis, and interpretation. As more commercial and clinical microbiology laboratories develop mNGS assays, it is important for treating practitioners to understand both the power and limitations of this method as a diagnostic tool for infectious diseases.'


UI  -  30120891
TI  -  Impact of recent and future climate change on vector-borne diseases.
AB  -  b'Climate change is one of the greatest threats to human health in the 21st\\N{NO-BREAK SPACE}century. Climate directly impacts health through climatic extremes, air quality, sea-level rise, and multifaceted influences on food production systems and water resources. Climate also affects infectious diseases, which have played a significant role in human history, impacting the rise and fall of civilizations and facilitating the conquest of new territories. Our review highlights significant regional changes in vector and pathogen distribution reported in temperate, peri-Arctic, Arctic, and tropical highland regions during recent decades, changes that have been anticipated by scientists worldwide. Further future changes are likely if we fail to mitigate and adapt to climate change. Many key factors affect the spread and severity of human diseases, including mobility of people, animals, and goods; control measures in place; availability of effective drugs; quality of public health services; human behavior; and political stability and conflicts. With drug and insecticide resistance on the rise, significant funding and research efforts must to be maintained to continue the battle against existing and emerging diseases, particularly those that are vector borne.'


UI  -  23746171
TI  -  Transfer factor: an overlooked potential for the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases.
AB  -  b'Transfer factor (TF) is a low-molecular-weight lymphocyte extract capable of transferring antigen-specific cell-mediated immunity (CMI) to T lymphocytes. It has been used successfully as an adjuvant or primary therapy for viral, parasitic, fungal, and some bacterial infections, as well as immunodeficiencies, neoplasias, allergies and autoimmune diseases. From the list of infections that seem to respond noticeably to transfer factor, those due to viruses of the herpes family are particularly remarkable. Indeed, for these viruses it was shown that TF can prevent infection or relapse, acting as a CMI vaccine. Data also suggest its possible use for adjuvant treatment and probably prevention of two currently widespread infections: tuberculosis and AIDS. Furthermore, TF has an interesting potential: answering the challenge from unknown pathogenic agents, a black box effect permitting production of antigen-specific TF to a new pathogen, even before its identification. It thus seems that the preventative potential of transfer factor is as important as its therapeutic one, both discussed in this review.'


UI  -  30341241
TI  -  Application of droplet digital PCR to detect the pathogens of infectious diseases.
AB  -  b'Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a molecular biology technique used to multiply certain deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) fragments. It is a common and indispensable technique that has been applied in many areas, especially in clinical laboratories. The third generation of polymerase chain reaction, droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR), is a biotechnological refinement of conventional polymerase chain reaction methods that can be used to directly quantify and clonally amplify DNA. Droplet digital polymerase chain reaction is now widely used in low-abundance nucleic acid detection and is useful in diagnosis of infectious diseases. Here, we summarized the potential advantages of droplet digital polymerase chain reaction in clinical diagnosis of infectious diseases, including viral diseases, bacterial diseases and parasite infections, concluded that ddPCR provides a more sensitive, accurate, and reproducible detection of low-abundance pathogens and may be a better choice than quantitative polymerase chain reaction for clinical applications in the future.'


UI  -  26479830
TI  -  Impact of climate change on human infectious diseases: Empirical evidence and human adaptation.
AB  -  b"Climate change refers to long-term shifts in weather conditions and patterns of extreme weather events. It may lead to changes in health threat to human beings, multiplying existing health problems. This review examines the scientific evidences on the impact of climate change on human infectious diseases. It identifies research progress and gaps on how human society may respond to, adapt to, and prepare for the related changes. Based on a survey of related publications between 1990 and 2015, the terms used for literature selection reflect three aspects--the components of infectious diseases, climate variables, and selected infectious diseases. Humans' vulnerability to the potential health impacts by climate change is evident in literature. As an active agent, human beings may control the related health effects that may be effectively controlled through adopting proactive measures, including better understanding of the climate change patterns and of the compound disease-specific health effects, and effective allocation of technologies and resources to promote healthy lifestyles and public awareness. The following adaptation measures are recommended: 1) to go beyond empirical observations of the association between climate change and infectious diseases and develop more scientific explanations, 2) to improve the prediction of spatial-temporal process of climate change and the associated shifts in infectious diseases at various spatial and temporal scales, and 3) to establish locally effective early warning systems for the health effects of predicated climate change."


UI  -  31691607
TI  -  mNGS in clinical microbiology laboratories: on the road to maturity.
AB  -  b'Metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) is increasingly being applied in clinical laboratories for unbiased culture-independent diagnosis. Whether it can be a next routine pathogen identification tool has become a topic of concern. We review the current implementation of this new technology for infectious disease diagnostics and discuss the feasibility of transforming mNGS into a routine diagnostic test. Since 2008, numerous studies from over 20 countries have revealed the practicality of mNGS in the work-up of undiagnosed infectious diseases. mNGS performs well in identifying rare, novel, difficult-to-detect and coinfected pathogens directly from clinical samples and presents great potential in resistance prediction by sequencing the antibiotic resistance genes, providing new diagnostic evidence that can be used to guide treatment options and improve antibiotic stewardship. Many physicians recognized mNGS as a last resort method to address clinical infection problems. Although several hurdles, such as workflow validation, quality control, method standardisation, and data interpretation, remain before mNGS can be implemented routinely in clinical laboratories, they are temporary and can be overcome by rapidly evolving technologies. With more validated workflows, lower cost and turnaround time, and simplified interpretation criteria, mNGS will be widely accepted in clinical practice. Overall, mNGS is transforming the landscape of clinical microbiology laboratories, and to ensure that it is properly utilised in clinical diagnosis, both physicians and microbiologists should have a thorough understanding of the power and limitations of this method.'


UI  -  30911807
TI  -  Diagnostic and therapeutic approach to infectious diseases in solid organ transplant recipients.
AB  -  b'Prognosis of solid organ transplant (SOT) recipients has improved, mainly because of better prevention of rejection by immunosuppressive therapies. However, SOT recipients are highly susceptible to conventional and opportunistic infections, which represent a major cause of morbidity, graft dysfunction and mortality.'


UI  -  29785478
TI  -  Changing Trend of Infectious Diseases in Nepal.
AB  -  b'Many infectious/communicable diseases (IDs) are endemic in Nepal. Until a decade and half ago, IDs were the major cause of both morbidity and mortality accounting 70% for both. However, as a result of various preventive measures implemented by both the state and non-state actors, the overall IDs have shown a changing (declining) trend. The most impressive decline has been seen in the intestinal helminth infection. Though the overall burden of IDs is decreasing, several newer infectious diseases (emerging infections) namely, dengue fever, scrub typhus, influenza (H5N1 and H1N1), and others are posing a great public health problem. On the other hand, though sporadic, outbreaks of endemic diseases together with HIV-TB coinfection and infection with drug resistance microbes during recent years have constituted a serious public health as well as medical problem. On the contrary, with the decline of IDs, noninfectious diseases (noncommunicable disease, NCD) namely, diabetes, cancer (and cancer therapy), and others are on the rise particularly in urban areas. Hence, currently Nepal is trapped in "double burden" of diseases. Risk of opportunistic infection has increased in immunocompromised person with NCD. To address the present situation, the multi-sectoral plan and strategies developed must be implemented effectively.'


UI  -  30173662
TI  -  A scoping review on the field validation and implementation of rapid diagnostic tests for vector-borne and other infectious diseases of poverty in urban areas.
AB  -  b'Health personnel face challenges in diagnosing vector-borne and other diseases of poverty in urban settings. There is a need to know what rapid diagnostic technologies are available, have been properly assessed, and are being implemented to improve control of these diseases in the urban context. This paper characterizes evidence on the field validation and implementation in urban areas of rapid diagnostics for vector-borne diseases and other diseases of poverty.'


UI  -  30209913
TI  -  Update in Infectious Diseases 2018.
AB  -  b'VIII Updating Course of Antimicrobials and Infectious Diseases has reviewed useful microbiological, epidemiological and clinical aspects for a current approach of infectious pathology. Present manuscript summarizes a chronicle about the main infection related meetings during 2017 (ECCMID, IAS, ASM and ID Week). In addition, the course proposed a practical approach for understanding different type of pathogens and our selected topics this year were the epidemiology of bacterial nosocomial infection, a practical approach to Clostridium difficile infection patients, a two year selection of the top ten papers about fungal infection and an update in fungal biofilms. Finally, proffesors made a practical approach by main clinical syndromes like sepsis, infections in oncohematological patients, CNS infections in immunosuppressed patients and reviewed the top ten papers in transplant infectious diseases and infection control during the last two years.'


UI  -  23669075
TI  -  Biomarkers of endothelial activation/dysfunction in infectious diseases.
AB  -  b'Endothelial dysfunction contributes to the pathogenesis of a variety of potentially serious infectious diseases and syndromes, including sepsis and septic shock, hemolytic-uremic syndrome, severe malaria, and dengue hemorrhagic fever. Because endothelial activation often precedes overt endothelial dysfunction, biomarkers of the activated endothelium in serum and/or plasma may be detectable before classically recognized markers of disease, and therefore, may be clinically useful as biomarkers of disease severity or prognosis in systemic infectious diseases. In this review, the current status of mediators of endothelial cell function (angiopoietins-1 and -2), components of the coagulation pathway (von Willebrand Factor, ADAMTS13, and thrombomodulin), soluble cell-surface adhesion molecules (soluble E-selectin, sICAM-1, and sVCAM-1), and regulators of vascular tone and permeability (VEGF and sFlt-1) as biomarkers in severe infectious diseases is discussed in the context of sepsis, E. coli O157:H7 infection, malaria, and dengue virus infection. '


UI  -  10642539
TI  -  Emerging infectious diseases of wildlife--threats to biodiversity and human health.
AB  -  b'Emerging infectious diseases (EIDs) of free-living wild animals can be classified into three major groups on the basis of key epizootiological criteria: (i) EIDs associated with "spill-over" from domestic animals to wildlife populations living in proximity; (ii) EIDs related directly to human intervention, via host or parasite translocations; and (iii) EIDs with no overt human or domestic animal involvement. These phenomena have two major biological implications: first, many wildlife species are reservoirs of pathogens that threaten domestic animal and human health; second, wildlife EIDs pose a substantial threat to the conservation of global biodiversity.'


UI  -  29702253
TI  -  Infectious disease profiles of Syrian and Eritrean migrants presenting in Europe: A systematic review.
AB  -  b'In the past decade, a large influx of migrants presented in Europe. Their country of origin was mainly either Syria or Eritrea. Public health institutions in host countries in Europe are challenged to screen and care for migrant populations with regard to infectious diseases.'


UI  -  29217262
TI  -  Universal etiology, multifactorial diseases and the constitutive model of disease classification.
AB  -  b"Infectious diseases are often said to have a universal etiology, while chronic and noncommunicable diseases are said to be multifactorial in their etiology. It has been argued that the universal etiology of an infectious disease results from its classification using a monocausal disease model. In this article, I will reconstruct the monocausal model and argue that modern 'multifactorial diseases' are not monocausal by definition. 'Multifactorial diseases' are instead defined according to a constitutive disease model. On closer analysis, infectious diseases are also defined using the constitutive model rather than the monocausal model. As a result, our classification models alone cannot explain why infectious diseases have a universal etiology while chronic and noncommunicable diseases lack one. The explanation is instead provided by the Nineteenth Century germ theorists."


