UI  -  22930834
TI  -  NIH Image to ImageJ: 25 years of image analysis.
AB  -  b'For the past 25 years NIH Image and ImageJ software have been pioneers as open tools for the analysis of scientific images. We discuss the origins, challenges and solutions of these two programs, and how their history can serve to advise and inform other software projects.'


UI  -  29727584
TI  -  Single-Cell (Multi)omics Technologies.
AB  -  b'Single-cell multiomics technologies typically measure multiple types of molecule from the same individual cell, enabling more profound biological insight than can be inferred by analyzing each molecular layer from separate cells. These single-cell multiomics technologies can reveal cellular heterogeneity at multiple molecular layers within a population of cells and reveal how this variation is coupled or uncoupled between the captured omic layers. The data sets generated by these techniques have the potential to enable a deeper understanding of the key biological processes and mechanisms driving cellular heterogeneity and how they are linked with normal development and aging as well as disease etiology. This review details both established and novel single-cell mono- and multiomics technologies and considers their limitations, applications, and likely future developments.'


UI  -  27686657
TI  -  Overview of Systems Biology and Omics Technologies.
AB  -  b'Traditional technologies using reductionist approach are relatively insufficient to solve problems in a biological system. Rather than a reductionist approach, systems biology uses a holistic and integrative approach to better figure out the whole process. Both qualitatively and quantitatively of biological system provide information about diseases, toxicities, therapies etc. Omics technologies, which systems biology brings, are valuable tools for comprehensive analyses. Automated DNA sequencers enabled the sequencing of genomes; microarray and mass spectrometry analysis permit global transcriptional profiling and lead to large-scale proteomic and metabolomics analysis. These high-throughput data need to be interpreted by bioinformatics. So far there has been no concrete published paper that compiles omics technologies according to PubMed database. In the present review, it was aimed to give brief description of systems biology and information on the advantages and disadvantages of omics technologies.'


UI  -  27465042
TI  -  India's Computational Biology Growth and Challenges.
AB  -  b"India's computational science is growing swiftly due to the outburst of internet and information technology services. The bioinformatics sector of India has been transforming rapidly by creating a competitive position in global bioinformatics market. Bioinformatics is widely used across India to address a wide range of biological issues. Recently, computational researchers and biologists are collaborating in projects such as database development, sequence analysis, genomic prospects and algorithm generations. In this paper, we have presented the Indian computational biology scenario highlighting bioinformatics-related educational activities, manpower development, internet boom, service industry, research activities, conferences and trainings undertaken by the corporate and government sectors. Nonetheless, this new field of science faces lots of challenges. "


UI  -  29098954
TI  -  Guidelines for Genome-Scale Analysis of Biological Rhythms.
AB  -  b'Genome biology approaches have made enormous contributions to our understanding of biological rhythms, particularly in identifying outputs of the clock, including RNAs, proteins, and metabolites, whose abundance oscillates throughout the day. These methods hold significant promise for future discovery, particularly when combined with computational modeling. However, genome-scale experiments are costly and laborious, yielding "big data" that are conceptually and statistically difficult to analyze. There is no obvious consensus regarding design or analysis. Here we discuss the relevant technical considerations to generate reproducible, statistically sound, and broadly useful genome-scale data. Rather than suggest a set of rigid rules, we aim to codify principles by which investigators, reviewers, and readers of the primary literature can evaluate the suitability of different experimental designs for measuring different aspects of biological rhythms. We introduce CircaInSilico, a web-based application for generating synthetic genome biology data to benchmark statistical methods for studying biological rhythms. Finally, we discuss several unmet analytical needs, including applications to clinical medicine, and suggest productive avenues to address them.'


UI  -  15461798
TI  -  Bioconductor: open software development for computational biology and bioinformatics.
AB  -  b'The Bioconductor project is an initiative for the collaborative creation of extensible software for computational biology and bioinformatics. The goals of the project include: fostering collaborative development and widespread use of innovative software, reducing barriers to entry into interdisciplinary scientific research, and promoting the achievement of remote reproducibility of research results. We describe details of our aims and methods, identify current challenges, compare Bioconductor to other open bioinformatics projects, and provide working examples.'


UI  -  30696086
TI  -  Machine Learning and Integrative Analysis of Biomedical Big Data.
AB  -  b'Recent developments in high-throughput technologies have accelerated the accumulation of massive amounts of omics data from multiple sources: genome, epigenome, transcriptome, proteome, metabolome, etc. Traditionally, data from each source (e.g., genome) is analyzed in isolation using statistical and machine learning (ML) methods. Integrative analysis of multi-omics and clinical data is key to new biomedical discoveries and advancements in precision medicine. However, data integration poses new computational challenges as well as exacerbates the ones associated with single-omics studies. Specialized computational approaches are required to effectively and efficiently perform integrative analysis of biomedical data acquired from diverse modalities. In this review, we discuss state-of-the-art ML-based approaches for tackling five specific computational challenges associated with integrative analysis: curse of dimensionality, data heterogeneity, missing data, class imbalance and scalability issues.'


UI  -  31561483
TI  -  The Need for Multi-Omics Biomarker Signatures in Precision Medicine.
AB  -  b'Recent advances in omics technologies have led to unprecedented efforts characterizing the molecular changes that underlie the development and progression of a wide array of complex human diseases, including cancer. As a result, multi-omics analyses-which take advantage of these technologies in genomics, transcriptomics, epigenomics, proteomics, metabolomics, and other omics areas-have been proposed and heralded as the key to advancing precision medicine in the clinic. In the field of precision oncology, genomics approaches, and, more recently, other omics analyses have helped reveal several key mechanisms in cancer development, treatment resistance, and recurrence risk, and several of these findings have been implemented in clinical oncology to help guide treatment decisions. However, truly integrated multi-omics analyses have not been applied widely, preventing further advances in precision medicine. Additional efforts are needed to develop the analytical infrastructure necessary to generate, analyze, and annotate multi-omics data effectively to inform precision medicine-based decision-making.'


UI  -  21900203
TI  -  Focus issue: series on computational and systems biology.
AB  -  b'The application of computational biology and systems biology is yielding quantitative insight into cellular regulatory phenomena. For the month of September, Science Signaling highlights research featuring computational approaches to understanding cell signaling and investigation of signaling networks, a series of Teaching Resources from a course in systems biology, and various other articles and resources relevant to the application of computational biology and systems biology to the study of signal transduction.'


UI  -  30232369
TI  -  Computational tools to unmask transposable elements.
AB  -  b"A substantial proportion of the genome of many species is derived from transposable elements (TEs). Moreover, through various self-copying mechanisms, TEs continue to proliferate in the genomes of most species. TEs have contributed numerous regulatory, transcript and protein innovations and have also been linked to disease. However, notwithstanding their demonstrated impact, many genomic studies still exclude them because their repetitive nature results in various analytical complexities. Fortunately, a growing array of methods and software tools are being developed to cater for them. This Review presents a summary of computational resources for TEs and highlights some of the challenges and remaining gaps to perform comprehensive genomic analyses that do not simply 'mask' repeats."


UI  -  26845152
TI  -  The Development of Computational Biology in South Africa: Successes Achieved and Lessons Learnt.
AB  -  b'Bioinformatics is now a critical skill in many research and commercial environments as biological data are increasing in both size and complexity. South African researchers recognized this need in the mid-1990s and responded by working with the government as well as international bodies to develop initiatives to build bioinformatics capacity in the country. Significant injections of support from these bodies provided a springboard for the establishment of computational biology units at multiple universities throughout the country, which took on teaching, basic research and support roles. Several challenges were encountered, for example with unreliability of funding, lack of skills, and lack of infrastructure. However, the bioinformatics community worked together to overcome these, and South Africa is now arguably the leading country in bioinformatics on the African continent. Here we discuss how the discipline developed in the country, highlighting the challenges, successes, and lessons learnt. '


UI  -  25483351
TI  -  Ten years of pan-genome analyses.
AB  -  b'Next generation sequencing technologies have engendered a genome sequence data deluge in public databases. Genome analyses have transitioned from single or few genomes to hundreds to thousands of genomes. Pan-genome analyses provide a framework for estimating the genomic diversity of the dataset at hand and predicting the number of additional whole genomes sequences that would be necessary to fully characterize that diversity. We review recent implementations of the pan-genome approach, its impact and limits, and we propose possible extensions, including analyses at the whole genome multiple sequence alignment level. '


UI  -  14630646
TI  -  Early bioinformatics: the birth of a discipline--a personal view.
AB  -  b"The field of bioinformatics has experienced an explosive growth in the last decade, yet this 'new' field has a long history. Some historical perspectives have been previously provided by the founders of this field. Here, we take the opportunity to review the early stages and follow developments of this discipline from a personal perspective."


UI  -  29072373
TI  -  CHO-Omics Review: The Impact of Current and Emerging Technologies on Chinese Hamster Ovary Based Bioproduction.
AB  -  b'CHO cells are the most prevalent platform for modern bio-therapeutic production. Currently, there are several CHO cell lines used in bioproduction with distinct characteristics and unique genotypes and phenotypes. These differences limit advances in productivity and quality that can be achieved by the most common approaches to bioprocess optimization and cell line engineering. Incorporating omics-based approaches into current bioproduction processes will complement traditional methodologies to maximize gains from CHO engineering and bioprocess improvements. In order to highlight the utility of omics technologies in CHO bioproduction, the authors discuss current applications as well as limitations of genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, lipidomics, fluxomics, glycomics, and multi-omics approaches and the potential they hold for the future of bioproduction. Multiple omics approaches are currently being used to improve CHO bioprocesses; however, the application of these technologies is still limited. As more CHO-omic datasets become available and integrated into systems models, the authors expect significant gains in product yield and quality. While individual omics technologies provide incremental improvements in bioproduction, the authors will likely see the most significant gains by applying multi-omics and systems biology approaches to individual CHO cell lines.'


UI  -  27899622
TI  -  UniProt: the universal protein knowledgebase.
AB  -  b'The UniProt knowledgebase is a large resource of protein sequences and associated detailed annotation. The database contains over 60 million sequences, of which over half a million sequences have been curated by experts who critically review experimental and predicted data for each protein. The remainder are automatically annotated based on rule systems that rely on the expert curated knowledge. Since our last update in 2014, we have more than doubled the number of reference proteomes to 5631, giving a greater coverage of taxonomic diversity. We implemented a pipeline to remove redundant highly similar proteomes that were causing excessive redundancy in UniProt. The initial run of this pipeline reduced the number of sequences in UniProt by 47 million. For our users interested in the accessory proteomes, we have made available sets of pan proteome sequences that cover the diversity of sequences for each species that is found in its strains and sub-strains. To help interpretation of genomic variants, we provide tracks of detailed protein information for the major genome browsers. We provide a SPARQL endpoint that allows complex queries of the more than 22 billion triples of data in UniProt (http://sparql.uniprot.org/). UniProt resources can be accessed via the website at http://www.uniprot.org/.'


UI  -  15520816
TI  -  Docking and scoring in virtual screening for drug discovery: methods and applications.
AB  -  b"Computational approaches that 'dock' small molecules into the structures of macromolecular targets and 'score' their potential complementarity to binding sites are widely used in hit identification and lead optimization. Indeed, there are now a number of drugs whose development was heavily influenced by or based on structure-based design and screening strategies, such as HIV protease inhibitors. Nevertheless, there remain significant challenges in the application of these approaches, in particular in relation to current scoring schemes. Here, we review key concepts and specific features of small-molecule-protein docking methods, highlight selected applications and discuss recent advances that aim to address the acknowledged limitations of established approaches."


UI  -  22877768
TI  -  Network-based drug discovery by integrating systems biology and computational technologies.
AB  -  b"Network-based intervention has been a trend of curing systemic diseases, but it relies on regimen optimization and valid multi-target actions of the drugs. The complex multi-component nature of medicinal herbs may serve as valuable resources for network-based multi-target drug discovery due to its potential treatment effects by synergy. Recently, robustness of multiple systems biology platforms shows powerful to uncover molecular mechanisms and connections between the drugs and their targeting dynamic network. However, optimization methods of drug combination are insufficient, owning to lacking of tighter integration across multiple '-omics' databases. The newly developed algorithm- or network-based computational models can tightly integrate '-omics' databases and optimize combinational regimens of drug development, which encourage using medicinal herbs to develop into new wave of network-based multi-target drugs. However, challenges on further integration across the databases of medicinal herbs with multiple system biology platforms for multi-target drug optimization remain to the uncertain reliability of individual data sets, width and depth and degree of standardization of herbal medicine. Standardization of the methodology and terminology of multiple system biology and herbal database would facilitate the integration. Enhance public accessible databases and the number of research using system biology platform on herbal medicine would be helpful. Further integration across various '-omics' platforms and computational tools would accelerate development of network-based drug discovery and network medicine. "


UI  -  15318951
TI  -  MUSCLE: a multiple sequence alignment method with reduced time and space complexity.
AB  -  b'In a previous paper, we introduced MUSCLE, a new program for creating multiple alignments of protein sequences, giving a brief summary of the algorithm and showing MUSCLE to achieve the highest scores reported to date on four alignment accuracy benchmarks. Here we present a more complete discussion of the algorithm, describing several previously unpublished techniques that improve biological accuracy and / or computational complexity. We introduce a new option, MUSCLE-fast, designed for high-throughput applications. We also describe a new protocol for evaluating objective functions that align two profiles.'


UI  -  20816881
TI  -  A survey of computational methods and error rate estimation procedures for peptide and protein identification in shotgun proteomics.
AB  -  b'This manuscript provides a comprehensive review of the peptide and protein identification process using tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) data generated in shotgun proteomic experiments. The commonly used methods for assigning peptide sequences to MS/MS spectra are critically discussed and compared, from basic strategies to advanced multi-stage approaches. A particular attention is paid to the problem of false-positive identifications. Existing statistical approaches for assessing the significance of peptide to spectrum matches are surveyed, ranging from single-spectrum approaches such as expectation values to global error rate estimation procedures such as false discovery rates and posterior probabilities. The importance of using auxiliary discriminant information (mass accuracy, peptide separation coordinates, digestion properties, and etc.) is discussed, and advanced computational approaches for joint modeling of multiple sources of information are presented. This review also includes a detailed analysis of the issues affecting the interpretation of data at the protein level, including the amplification of error rates when going from peptide to protein level, and the ambiguities in inferring the identifies of sample proteins in the presence of shared peptides. Commonly used methods for computing protein-level confidence scores are discussed in detail. The review concludes with a discussion of several outstanding computational issues.'


UI  -  27927225
TI  -  Trends and challenges in computational RNA biology.
AB  -  b'A report on the Wellcome Trust Conference on Computational RNA Biology, held in Hinxton, UK, on 17-19 October 2016.'


